I wanna revisit an exercise that we kind
of started in TypeScript Fundamentals v4.
We discussed this when we were
talking about type queries and
specifically an indexed access type.
And we were attempting to build
the data layer that would allow
us to kind of fetch a record and
state the name of the record that
we're trying to fetch and
an ID for that record.
And the hope was eventually you
could get a promise that would
resolve to the right type here.
But in TypeScript Fundamentals v4,
we didn't really have all the tools
that we've now covered in order
to do all of those things.
All we could really do was make
sure that the type param for
the first argument, sorry,
not the type param, but
the argument type for this first
argument was either book or magazine.
And we accomplished that through,
and I'll scroll down here,
we accomplished that through
declaration merging.
And I have a copy of this locally, and
I'll switch to VS Code here in a second.
But we did get some good
things out of that, right?
We saw that we could create new TypeScript
files that would define a class
representing a new record type.
And we could kind of register those types,
register book in the DataTypeRegistry,
and, sure enough,
when we went back to call
this fetch record function,
if we looked at this argument type,
here it is, we could see book or magazine.
So it's an example of open interfaces,
letting us inject something
into an interface,
module declarations, like this,
allowing us to sort of add
type information as if it was
defined in this other file.
We also see evidence that there is one and
only one DataTypeRegistry type.
So if we modify it, it's modified
everywhere that type is used,
including in your node modules folder.
Again, type checking is a holistic
operation that sort of operates
on all of your code including its
dependencies at the same time,
and there's only one DataTypeRegistry.
So what I'd like us to do is pick
up where we left off effectively.
So I'm just gonna walk
through the structure here,
in case some of you did not attend
TypeScript Fundamentals before.
Our project contains a data folder.
The contents of each file in the data
folder, they represent a record type,
something we could retrieve with
this fetch record function,
which we hope to be able to use.
This lib/registry file looks like this.
We have an empty interface which record
files like book.ts and magazine.ts.
They will register themselves
in the DataTypeRegistry.
And then we have a fetchRecord function
which requires that the argument
be an intersection type between string and
key of DataTypeRegistry.
So here's what the record types look like.
And then here is kind of as far as we got,
we were able to get
DataTypeRegistry, it had the keys book and
magazine.
Now, I want us to take
on a task of fleshing
this example out a little more fully.
I want us to make this nicer,
more ergonomic, do some more cool things.
So we're gonna use a mapped
type to make fetch record
return a promise that resolves
to the correct record type.
Meaning, if we say fetchRecord("book"),
we had better see a book type coming back.
My book should be a book.
If we call magazine,
if that's the first argument here,
this had better be a magazine type.
I'm also introducing a plural,
fetchRecords, and
I'm providing a list of IDs here,
an array of IDs, and
these should be arrays of books,
an array of magazines.
So that's these two
requirements effectively.
Here I am imposing a constraint
on the shape of the ID.
Book IDs must begin with book_.
Magazine IDs must begin with magazine_.
So we have a starting point for
our code in our notes folder,
sorry, this should be a dash.
That's my typo here.
Notes-intermediate-ts-v2-src/10-type-regi-
stry-revisited/index.ts.
So I'm gonna go over to that file.
If you're following along from home if
you wanna try this yourself, this is
a big time to pause cuz we're gonna go
walk through the solution together.
It's also worth noting, and I have this
in the website so people can spot it.
Everything you need to do
is in lib/registry.ts,
shouldn't have to touch any other file.
But I'm gonna keep this other file open,
index.ts,
cuz that's kind of like our
test suite a little bit.
I'm gonna uncomment these, and
we're gonna start coding until it passes.
So okay,
the first thing we're gonna wanna do
is we're going to need
a type parameter here.
Key, so I'll make this K for key.
K extends keyof DataTypeRegistry.
And we can say arg is now of type K.
And we can look back and
see fetchRecord, okay, look,
it's generic over the string literal type,
magazine.
The arguments it takes in are fine.
If I try to use a string
that is not present in
the DataTypeRegistry just as
it should just as before,
it won't accept invalid record names,
so that's looking good.
Sorry, just to make it easier on folks,
can I do this?
Yeah, we'll do that.
Cuz code is wide and
this is probably easier to see.
Okay, so okay, that's great.
And I'm gonna actually kinda copy
that down cuz I suspect we'll want
the same thing for the array case.
Great, what are we going to return?
Well, we know we can use
an indexed access type here.
DataTypeRegistry[K].
What's the problem here?
We're not returning.
That's fine.
We'll do that just to suppress that error.
We're not actually running this code.
Just have to return something.
We'll make sure we return
something at the bottom too.
We're just solving for the types here.
So here we're returning
DataTypeRegistry[K], array.
So let's look back here.
Look at that.
We fetch a record of type book,
we get a book.
We fetch a record of type magazine,
we get a magazine.
Here we get an array of books.
An array of magazines, pretty cool, right?
You could imagine writing a library or
something that has no knowledge
of a book or a magazine.
One user of this library could
be writing code for a library,
another could be writing code for
a pharmacy, and they could have totally
different kinds of records, but
they're able to register them centrally.
All of the code dealing with
specificity of the records,
that could live in the app.
And then this record fetching system
is implemented in a very reusable and
generic way, where it's typed
in a reusable generic way,
its not implemented at all, but still.
All right, we're still not erroring
in places where we should error.
And that's because,
I think in all of these cases,
they deal with IDs that
don't match the convention.
I asked us to match where book
IDs should start with book_.
Magazine IDs should start with magazine_.
So let's go ahead and
work with these ID types.
So here, what we can do is say, K string.
Here we can say, an array of K_strings.
K, in this case, is gonna be book or
magazine, and then an underscore, and
then we'll take any string,
any completion of the string after that.
So if you wanna look at the diffs here,
now that everything is passing in this top
file, I'm just gonna close it,
And I'll show you the diff.
Actually, this is probably better.
>> Someone just said, wow, that's nice.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Nice.
>> Nice, so
this was our starting point in red.
And you see we had no type parameter.
We still had a constraint that ensured
only things in the DataTypeRegistry,
only key names were passed in.
But we've extracted that out, used a type
parameter with the constraint, right?
It must be in keyof DataTypeRegistry.
Here we're using a string literal type.
And we're saying, for this key name,
which we're gonna be able to
infer based on that first argument,
the ID must also start with that word.
And then here we have
this indexed access type,
which says, give me the value of the type.
That DataTypeRegistry with key K has,
right?
The string book should go to book.
There you go.
This is starting to become
a nice little data layer.
Yeah, LJ says this is more clear than what
we had in the fundamentals course, for
some reason.
Some candidate reasons are, we have
covered a lot of material since then,
so I'm glad it's more clear.
Also, this probably makes more sense,
now that we've seen how valuable
this can be, maybe it clicks.
All right,
we've now finished the DataTypeRegistry.
We met all of the requirements.
It's a much cooler thing
that we can use now.
And there are some sort of client-side
ORMs that behave in this way,
but one of the key benefits is
if we wanted to add like a,
let's copy and paste, audiobook.
And here's audiobook.
Make this lowercase just to
stick with our convention and
we'll call this, DurationInMinutes.
Now we've just created this class.
Now we can do this.
Look at that, audiobook pops out.
Whoa, this is interesting.
Why is it allowing us to do that?
FetchRecord, Magazine,
it's inferred that it could be magazine or
audiobook.
It's sort of double inferring here.
That's curious.
Not type checking.
So it's a valid ID, this would be caught
cuz it doesn't match any conventions.
We'll leave that as an exercise for
the next course, maybe.
We can do that, and we get audiobook back.
So you could just add more and
more and more record types, and
that reusable fetchRecord piece of code,
it's just going to keep adapting and
adapting and adapting.
And we get really nice
typed promises coming back.